This is a blog by [@questionaware](https://twitter.com/questionaware). 

## The Boundary Theory of Thought

Control is giving phenomena a boundary. It is not control over phenomena. This is why that control is not real control. It is the ability to make phenomena exist in relation to some cultural object. All objects that exist in the mind are cultural objects. All cultural objects exist only in relation to something else. This is why objects are not really objects. Their existence is wholly dependent on what they are relating to, and they exist as that relationship, not as an independent object.

To give an example, the phenomena of sight occurs. This is given a boundary by the object of the viewer, the self. This is further given boundaries by the environment, and so on. The self is a cultural object, as is the environment, called as such because they are knowledge given to you through culture interaction. The self exists in relation to the phenomena of sight. Really, there is only that phenomena, but because self has attached to it, giving the impression of a relation, that self is given the impression of existing. Really there is only the phenomena, and the supposed relation of a self to that phenomena. The object of the self does not exist.

In the same way, no things exist. All things exist only as relations, not as independent objects. This cannot be resolved by the destruction of phenomena. It can only be resolved by destruction of the boundaries. These boundaries are automatically destroyed once you recognize that they have no independent existence, and only exist in relation to phenomena. Some people practice this by focusing on the phenomena, e.g. the breath. Other people practice this by focusing on the boundaries. If you are aware of a boundary, then it will automatically be destroyed.

Most boundaries you are not explicitly aware of. They are shadows rather than immediate and obvious. That’s the reason that they are able to be maintained for a long time without you noticing them. You experience phenomena, and stay focused on the objects. Because you stay focused on the objects, your attention is maintained on finding the objects. Because of that, you miss that there are no objects. It seems silly, but it’s true. Your attention is taken up by trying to find objects. You don’t usually pay attention to the boundaries or the phenomena. The moment you’re aware of either the boundary or the phenomena, you experience a “huh, that thing I was thinking/doing didn’t really makes sense”. That’s because you notice the relationship between the phenomena, object and boundary, and notice that something is up with the object. You notice that it doesn’t really seem real.

For example, if you tried to find yourself right now, then you would look where there is no object, which you would be directed to look at by the boundary. The boundary would say “these words exist in relationship to your self, so pay attention to yourself if you want to find yourself” or something related. Then, you would put some attention on trying to find yourself, waste your energy, and feel a bit frustrated or bored because you were making no progress. However, if you identified the phenomena of these words and didn’t follow the direction of the boundary, or noticed the boundary existing in relation to the non-object of the self, then you would think huh, there’s no point looking for myself at all. There’s just words, and there isn’t really anything there.

There are as many ways to create boundaries as there are stars in the sky. This ability can be cultivated and is cultivated. It’s also manipulated and abused. Because you construct these boundaries using cultural relationships, culture is able to shape how you behave and think. The essential trick of culture is to get you focused on an object that doesn’t exist, and to make you behave a certain way by making you focus on that object. Culture doesn’t create the boundaries. It is just the interface that you interact with to create the boundaries. That’s why you can make whatever boundary you want, even if culture is trying to make you create a certain one.

For example, you can imagine browsing social media. Social media creates the boundaries of social interactions. It creates the boundaries of people, culture, and so on. This gives the impression of objects. These objects drive your action, because you want to interact with people and culture, you seek to find those objects within that space. Social media drives your action by giving you the illusory boundaries of people and culture. Really, there are no people or culture, there is just the phenomena of the social media on your screen. It doesn’t necessitate boundaries, but you naturally create those boundaries by browsing it.



