# How To Not Be Controlled By Habit (Habit as default)

By default, you come from your habits. That is because you perceive yourself as the formation of those habits, as the coordinator of those habits. You identify with those habits and that habitual energy. That means that when you sleep, you are in those habits, when you wake up, you wake up into those habits.

However, habitual energy does not have to be your default. The only reason that it is your default is because your center (locality, self) is identified with that habitual energy. For some reason, somewhere along the way, you put yourself in the shoes of your habitual energy. Then, you started acting as if you are that habitual energy, and refined and improved it to get where you wanted to be.

The problem is, habitual energy is dead. It cant be used in reaction to situations, it cant be used to create living things, and it cant be used for you to find happiness and peace. Habitual energy is cultural energy that has embedded itself in forms in your body, and blocks the flow of energy around it. It is a trapping, heavy, dirty energy that encapsulates and dominates rather than letting things be. It hurts.

You know that, and you know that when you escape from that habitual energy then you feel free, you feel more at peace, and you feel happier, but for some reason "you" are just stuck in that habitual energy. You don't know how to get out. This perspective is the *exact reason* that you are stuck. You are coming from the place of "I am habitual energy, so how do I get out of it." you will never get out of it that way. That's perpetuating it, in fact it's the only thing perpetuating it.

You get out of that habitual energy by removing your locality from it. It's not that you have habits and you want them to stop, it's that you are freedom. Moving your locality from habituality to natural freedom can be done in an instant and once it's done then there is no going back. It's like a lightswitch. The reason that it appears difficult is because it's approached from by habitual energy, and habitual energy tries to control it the same way it does anything.

First, you have to recognize that your locality is in habitual energy. Then, recognize that the locality is the exact *and only* thing perpetuating that habitual energy. Then, move it into freedom. Suddenly, you're already there. You know what freedom is, you don't have to put it into intellectuality or conceptuality to understand it, it's the already present thing that you are completely aware of, it's awareness itself.

Thanks for reading.