# When should you feel, and when should you act?

Feelings are important, but they are not a substitute for actions. Acting with feelings is acting in reaction to feelings, which can lead you to very good places but adds an extra step. As feelings are bound up in rationalizations, perceptions, blocked energy in the body and all kinds of malformations, then acting on reaction to feeling can often be subservience to the worst aspects of the mind and body. However, as feelings can be derived from spiritual insight, love, spaciousness, connection to others, and connections to global consciousness, reacting to them can also give insights that you wouldn’t normally be able to get. You give up control over your actions in exchange for giving feelings control.

Control isn’t the most valuable thing in the world, but it is valuable in certain situations. For example, if you were feeling insecure about something, i.e. there was some blocked energy in your body, for example you felt insecure about working at your job, then reacting to your feelings would mean that you would procrastinate. In a case like this, it’s a lot better to just act without reacting to those feelings. That doesn’t mean to reject or suppress those feelings, it just means that you come from a different place. Those feelings may still be there, and they may go away or amplify, but because you aren’t reacting to them anymore, they don’t hold power over your actions which means you can do whatever you want to do regardless.

In terms of chakras, feelings are in the sacral chakra. Being stuck reacting to feelings is a block in the connection between the root chakra (which is the chakra of action) and the sacral chakra. The root chakra is directly below the sacral chakra, and the sacral chakra is a bit below the belly button. Opening up that pathway means that you won’t be attached to reacting with feelings anymore, and you’ll be able to freely act with just actions or react to feelings as the situation requires it. The problem with this energy is that it doesn’t hold back, there is no consideration or give, it’s extremely solid and can't be moved or influenced. 

Not being influenced is a good thing when you *need to do something*, but it’s not so good when you don’t need to do something. When you don’t need to do something, often your feelings are telling you things about it that are deeply complex and interesting to examine, and following those feelings can lead you into paths you’ve never been down before. Essentially, you can be controlled by your environment and others, and your feelings, and they can teach you things you wouldn’t normally have known. This is valuable because it broadens your horizons. But just having broad horizons isn’t useful, especially in a world that values results over personal growth. Action is extremely important for getting things done.

