# Destroying Energies

Mental tension is the product of embedded thoughts that are stuck in the body. In this sense, headaches are relievable by processing habitual thoughts, destroying that energy. Just like most energies, they occur as an already-accepted aspect of your environmental consciousness, and you implicitly trust that they are real and not an immediate product of behaviour. Essentially, because they exist in your perception, they *must* be a natural part of that perception, which you have no business investigating. This is ignorance, and it’s a natural part of everything that has become habitual. It’s how habitual energies survive. You can destroy these habitual energies by just noticing that they are energies with an origin, that correspond to a particular thought behaviour. You do this by noticing them and not accepting that they are already present. Your body will naturally process the energy from there.

There are sticky energies. Sticky energies are not destroyed just by intention, and are rooted more in physicality than immediate action. These are energies that have existed in you for a long time, and are deeply connected to other habitual energies. They appear dense and non-removable because they are so interconnected. However, they are actually composed of weak individual energies which can be removed by further refining your intention. Instead of identifiying the physical phenomenom (e.g. head pain) try to break down that phenomena into multiple parts, see how they connect to each other and where they arise from. Is that head-ache energy really *inside your head* or is it connected more to your jaw? Is it part of your face? The energy should spread wider and be more specific and delicate. Then, you will automatically begin to process the energy. Essentially, the only reason that it sticks around is that you weren’t aware of it.

You don’t have to set aside and “meditate”, or enter a particular posture, to notice your energies and process them. It only takes your attention, which you can give through other actions as well. You can focus on doing something, for example writing a twitter post, and you can make your intention to write that twitter post while identifying or focusing on or destroying particular energies. Essentially, whatever you do you can do it as a part of your energy management. That doesn’t mean you should mindlessly habituate in existing energies, but it does mean that you don’t have to do anything in particular to start working through energy this way. Be ready to trust yourself and take time to stay still or process things. You will act differently than before and there will be experiences that are confusing or unbelievable, which you just have to accept and be there for. That will be your natural inclination. The worst thing you can do is start something and break it off. But you can go back to the starting line right after. It’s better than not doing it.

Following investigation in this way, you can break anything down to these energies. If you want to perform better at work, you can identify the energies that will enable you to do that or are stopping you from doing that. If you want to see things better or in more detail, you can do the same thing. There is no limit to taking the energy perspective, but it is rooted in the body. This is a very good thing for almost everyone because the body is deeply mistreated by modern day culture (as a scientific artifact of biological components that has no energy component). Your body is essentially starved of this kind of processing and it will thank you for doing it.

I'm always open to questions or discussions, especially challenging or difficult questions and discussions that obliterate whatever is going on here. Appreciate you reading this blog and I hope that it didn't affect you in a certain way that makes things more difficult to do. To be honest, any awareness towards your body is probably beneficial. There isn't really a way this can go wrong. One way it could go wrong is over rationalization and conceptualization about what energies are and how they work. On that note, I'd recommend investigating it with energy rather than explicit thoughts. Thanks again for reading, I used this blog post to get rid of my headache.