# How To Make Anything Matter To You

There are energy blocks in your body, that you have to actively process and be conscious of in-order to move forward as a human being. Living without processing energy blocks is living in stagnation, which is actually regression, and wasting your time alive. It can be difficult to integrate this processing with your existing lifestyle, because your existing lifestyle is based on ignorance of habits. The things you’ve chosen to do, the way you’ve chosen to be, the people you’ve chosen to be around are based on the ignorance of your habitual energies and re-enforcing those habitual energies.

The solution is to prioritize that energy processing above everything else. That doesn’t mean don’t work and earn money, it means that you work and earn money in-order to process some particular energies or work through some energy. The reason that you do that work isn’t to get money, or any other reason, it’s to process energy blocks. It can be very easy to de-prioritize this, because ignorance gives the illusion that a thing cannot exist without a block existing as well. This is because blocks are part of our perception, and our perception itself is a block. There is no way to see blocks as not part of that perception until we identify it as an energy in the body and destroy or process it.

This can lead to a very natural decision making process. Instead of thinking “What should I do?” you think, “How can I process these energies? How can I identify energies I am ignorant of?” or if you want to be even more specific, “How can I earn money in-order to process energies?”. You can re-evaluate how you want your lifestyle to be based on this. “What can I do today to process energies?”, the good thing about this is, you will always be satisfied with what you are doing, not on a feeling sensual level, but on a spiritual level. You will constantly be becoming more free from your habits and be unlocking new levels of consciousness you didn’t realize you had before. This makes whatever cost you take in-order to act this way worth it. 

There are plenty of situations where you do not really have a choice on your environment, your actions or your behaviours. However, if you instead try and succeed in those situations *by* accepting them totally first of all, and secondly *in-order* to process energies, then you will find that rather than those situations being difficult and a struggle, they will contribute to your life in a gigantic way. This shifts your thinking from being at object and material level (What can I get, what can I do) to thinking in terms of processing energy in the body, which is not a materialistic or object goal. It has its own rhythm. It’s more about respecting your body, respecting God, respecting the unborn mind, respecting the universe than it is about your whims. Energy has its own rules and you have to respect them if you want to process that energy. Your life becomes in service of something greater, and you can either continue to do whatever you want to do or further shape your life to fuel that path. Things become easy because they are something you already want to do, because you know that processing energy is beneficial for you.

To give you an example, I have a Viva examination for my PhD coming up. Because of this, I identify energies related to that, or potential ignorances, and begin processing those energies. By processing those energies, I naturally start to work on my Viva examination. Because I am working on preparing for my Viva examination by processing energies, I continue doing it *in-order* to process those energies. Essentially, I am doing the work by recognizing the energies that it is related to, and working on those. Then, the work gives me a natural avenue into working on those energies further. It’s not that the work is essential, but for processing and destroying the energies related to it, it’s absolutely perfect. I am starting from energy rather than starting from object. That makes it a lot stickier in my mental state, and is more convincing to my body. Starting from the object is starting from something dead, something I cannot relate to because it is not present in my body. But if I first identify where that thing is related to energies in my body, and focus on working on those energies, then the work is immediately relevant to my life, interesting to work on and I am already thinking about doing it.

That’s how you can be productive, doing something you “don’t want to do” or didn’t want to do, and also work on benefitting yourself directly in the most immediate and real way, in the process making material things more real to you and everything you believe in. It’s living life.
