# Culture is Self

Culture for the individual is the end-result of a series of interactions with cultural objects that others present. These objects are directed outwards, interact with you, and produce some new cultural object. The idea of an individual is actually the sensation of these cultural artifacts being present in the body. You can validate this by identifying what the sensation of yourself is in relation to. You will notice that it is in relation to past experiences. These past experiences, once investigated are composed of cultural objects embedded in the body as blocks of energy that do not allow things to flow through. The ignorance of these energy blocks give the sensation of something “being there” that is not actually there, and that is the sensation of the self. When you investigate these energy blocks, you lose a part of yourself because you are no longer blocked there or no longer ignorant of the block there.

The problem comes when you try and identify things outside of the body and outside of existing energy blocks that you can manage with your body. There is a strong cultural momentum to the existence of a self, to the ignorance. This is not immediately perceptible, but it can be accessed by focusing above your head and identifying blocks in your body using that focus. This is actually the processing of energetic blocks that do not exist in you, but exist in others. However, this cultural momentum is fuelled by all energetic blocks. You have to remove both the internal and cultural ones. The cultural ones are a lot more enjoyable to identify and remove. They are kind of like instant zips of energy that are gone from your body. This is because they didn’t actually belong there, they were residing there without your intention. The ones in your body are a product of your intentions, so they are a lot more sticky.

It is possible to unify the local and global perspectives. This is by connecting the chakra above your head to the chakra in your root. Then, essentially you are able to focus on both the sticky body energies and the cultural energies simultaneously. This is preferable because you can do double the work then if you identified either one separately. It feels really good. It makes me wonder if it’s possible to be working on these energies all the time. That’s something I’m going to write a blog about as well. This one is a little tough to follow, so sorry if you tried to and weren’t able to. There are going to be a lot of blogs like that, because I just use them to process energy. I’m not writing for a particular audience or to be understood. I just have an idea that I can use to process some energy and I use that idea to process that energy. Thanks for reading.
